docs/manual/configuration.wtf.rst, before:

``wtf`` section
***************
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 5

``wtf`` stands for *what to fit*.
This section parametrizes the failed cavities, as well as how they are fixed.

Selecting compensating cavities
===============================

*k out of n* method
-------------------

Compensate the :math:`n` failed cavities with :math:`k\times n` closest cavities :cite:`saini_assessment_2021,Yee-Rendon2022a`.

.. csv-table::
   :file: configuration_entries/wtf_k_out_of_n.csv
   :header-rows: 1

*l neighboring lattices* method
-------------------------------

  Every fault will be compensated by `l` full lattices, direct neighbors of the errors :cite:`Bouly2014,Placais2022a`.
  You must provide `l`.
  Non-failed cavities in the same lattice as the failure are also used.

.. csv-table::
   :file: configuration_entries/wtf_l_neighboring_lattices.csv
   :header-rows: 1

Manual association of failed / compensating cavities
----------------------------------------------------

If you want to manually associate each failed cavity with its compensating cavities:

.. csv-table::
   :file: configuration_entries/wtf_manual.csv
   :header-rows: 1


.. rubric:: Example

.. code-block:: toml

   # Indexes are cavity indexes
   idx = "cavity"
   failed = [
      [0, 1],       # First simulation first cryomodule is down
      [0],          # Second simulation only first cavity is down
      [1, 45]       # Third simulation second and 46th cavity are down
   ]

Settings optimization problem
=============================

Optimisation objectives
-----------------------

The values for `objective_preset` are explained here:

.. configmap:: lightwin.optimisation.objective.factory.OBJECTIVE_PRESETS
   :value-header: Objectives preset
   :keys-header: Corresponding keys

If you do not retrieve the beam absolute phase at the exit of the compensation zone (*eg*, if you use :class:`.EnergyMismatch`), you should probably rephase downstream cavities to keep RF/beam synchronicity.
This is acheived by setting your `beam_calculator.reference_phase_policy` key to `"phi_0_rel"` or `"phi_0_s"`.
See also :ref:`this notebook<notebooks-cavities-reference-phase>`.

.. note::
   You can subclass :class:`.ObjectiveFactory` to your liking, and pass the created object to :func:`.run_simulation` directly.

  .. code-block:: python
    
     config = process_config(toml_filepath, toml_keys)
     fault_scenarios = run_simulation(
         config,
         objective_factory_class=MyObjectiveFactory,  # subclass of ObjectiveFactory
     )

  An example is provided in `data/example/my_own_objectives.py`.

  .. todo::
     Make it more explicit and easy to understand with a jupyter notebook.

Optimisation algorithms
-----------------------

Here are mappings of `optimisation_algorithm` key to actual :class:`.OptimisationAlgorithm`.
Check the documentation of the optimisation algorithm you want to use, in particular if you want to tune it using `optimisation_algorithm_kwargs` key.

.. configmap:: lightwin.optimisation.algorithms.factory.ALGORITHM_SELECTOR
   :value-header: Optimisation algorithm
   :keys-header: Corresponding keys

Commit message:

better documentation of compensation strategies

docs/manual/configuration.wtf.rst, after:

``wtf`` section
***************
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 5

``wtf`` stands for *what to fit*.
This section parametrizes the failed cavities, as well as how they are fixed.

Selecting compensating cavities
===============================

Compensating cavities are selected according to the `strategy` keyword; actual functions mapping failures with failed cavities are listed here:

.. configmap:: lightwin.failures.strategy.STRATEGIES_MAPPING
   :value-header: Strategy function
   :keys-header: Corresponding keyword

Every strategy requires user to set specific parameters, as listed below.


*k out of n* method
-------------------

Compensate the :math:`n` failed cavities with :math:`k\times n` closest cavities :cite:`saini_assessment_2021,Yee-Rendon2022a`.

.. csv-table::
   :file: configuration_entries/wtf_k_out_of_n.csv
   :header-rows: 1

*l neighboring lattices* method
-------------------------------

  Every fault will be compensated by `l` full lattices, direct neighbors of the errors :cite:`Bouly2014,Placais2022a`.
  You must provide `l`.
  Non-failed cavities in the same lattice as the failure are also used.

.. csv-table::
   :file: configuration_entries/wtf_l_neighboring_lattices.csv
   :header-rows: 1

Manual association of failed / compensating cavities
----------------------------------------------------

If you want to manually associate each failed cavity with its compensating cavities:

.. csv-table::
   :file: configuration_entries/wtf_manual.csv
   :header-rows: 1


.. rubric:: Example

.. code-block:: toml

   # Indexes are cavity indexes
   idx = "cavity"
   failed = [
      [0, 1],       # First simulation first cryomodule is down
      [0],          # Second simulation only first cavity is down
      [1, 45]       # Third simulation second and 46th cavity are down
   ]

Global, global downstream compensation
--------------------------------------

Use either all cavities of the linac, or all cavities downstream of the failure.
These methods require a very large number of compensating cavities and therefore significant numerical resources.
As a result, they are only lightly tested.

Settings optimization problem
=============================

Optimisation objectives
-----------------------

The values for `objective_preset` are explained here:

.. configmap:: lightwin.optimisation.objective.factory.OBJECTIVE_PRESETS
   :value-header: Objectives preset
   :keys-header: Corresponding keys

If you do not retrieve the beam absolute phase at the exit of the compensation zone (*eg*, if you use :class:`.EnergyMismatch`), you should probably rephase downstream cavities to keep RF/beam synchronicity.
This is acheived by setting your `beam_calculator.reference_phase_policy` key to `"phi_0_rel"` or `"phi_0_s"`.
See also :ref:`this notebook<notebooks-cavities-reference-phase>`.

.. note::
   You can subclass :class:`.ObjectiveFactory` to your liking, and pass the created object to :func:`.run_simulation` directly.

  .. code-block:: python
    
     config = process_config(toml_filepath, toml_keys)
     fault_scenarios = run_simulation(
         config,
         objective_factory_class=MyObjectiveFactory,  # subclass of ObjectiveFactory
     )

  An example is provided in `data/example/my_own_objectives.py`.

  .. todo::
     Make it more explicit and easy to understand with a jupyter notebook.

Optimisation algorithms
-----------------------

Here are mappings of `optimisation_algorithm` key to actual :class:`.OptimisationAlgorithm`.
Check the documentation of the optimisation algorithm you want to use, in particular if you want to tune it using `optimisation_algorithm_kwargs` key.

.. configmap:: lightwin.optimisation.algorithms.factory.ALGORITHM_SELECTOR
   :value-header: Optimisation algorithm
   :keys-header: Corresponding keys
